# OMF 1 1.0.0
This is the specification for OMF 1, 1.0.0  
It will be divided up in small segments.

# Format
OMF is stored in the *JSON* format, wich is easy to modify, and is text-based.  
It is also commonly used across multiple programs, and is generally easy to implement.

# Building blocks

## OMF file
The OMF file, is well, the file. This is the base object of the JSON. It is structured as such:
```json
{
    "version": "",
    "copyright": "",
    "author": "",
    "nodes": [],
    "meshes": [],
    "materials": []
}
```
The **version** property is the OMF version the file was designed for. This is specified as `R.M.m.s` where `R` is the major release number(1 for OMF 1, 2 for OMF 2 etc), and `M.m.s` is the Major, Minor and Sub-versions(1.0.0 for OMF 1 1.0.0).  

The **copyright** property is an optional property that contains the copyright of the model.

The **author** propery is the autor of the model. This is optional.  

The **nodes** property is an array of *nodes*, and are the root nodes of the scene. This is mandatory.  

The **meshes** property is an array of *meshes*, and are the meshes in the model. This is also mandatory.  

The **materials** property is an array of *materials*, and are the materials in the model. This is also mandatory.

## mesh
The mesh type is what contains the meshes of the model. This is a fairly simple datatype, as it is only arrays.  
The mesh datatype is structured as such:
```json
{
    "verticies": [],
    "normals": [],
    "colors": [],
    "uvs": [],
    "materials": []
}
```
The **verticies** property is an array of *vec3* and are the vertex positions of the mesh.  

The **normals** property is an array of *vec3* and are the normals of the mesh. This either has to be empty or the same length as **verticies**   

The **colors** property is an array of *vec3* and are the vertex colors of the mesh. This either has to be empty or the same length as **verticies**   

The **uvs** property is an array of *vec2* and are the uvs of the mesh. This either has to be empty or the same length as **verticies**  

The **materials** property is an array of *int* or *uint* and are the material indicies of the mesh. This either has to be empty or the same length as **verticies**

## material
Materials are the things that specify how something should look, and they have a few properties.  
Materials are structured as such:
```json
{
    "name": "",
    "ambient": {},
    "diffuse": {},
    "specular": {},
    "shininess": 0.0
}
```
The **name** propery is an optional property to name the mateiral.  

The **ambient** property is of type *vec3*, and is the ambient color of the material.  

The **diffuse** property is of type *vec3*, and is the diffuse color of the material.  

The **specular** property is of type *vec3*, and is the specular color of the material.  

The **shininess** property is of type *float*, and is the shininess of the material.

## node
Nodes make up a major part of OMF, as they are all objects that contain a mesh.  
Nodes are specified as such:
```json
{
    "name": "",
    "transformation": {},
    "mesh": [],
    "children": []
}
```
The **name** property of the node is not required to be implemented, but is the name that represents the node. The **transformation** property is the transformation of the node. It should be a *transform* object(later down) and must be read.  

The **mesh** propery is an array of the type *uint* or *int*, depending on language barriers, and represents what mesh indiciexs the node has. This must be implemented.  

The **children** propery is an array of other nodes, the children of this node. They will be transformed both by their transform and the parent nodes transform. This must also be implemented

## transformation
The transformation is a type that represents the relative transformation of a node. If a node does not contain a parent, it is in world space.  
The transformation structure is as such:
```json
{
    "position": {},
    "rotation": {},
    "scale": {},
    "origin": {}
}
```
The **position** property is the position of the transform. This is of the datatype *vec3*.  

The **rotation** propery is the euler roation of the transform. This is represented with a *vec3*.  

The **scale** property is the scale of the node. This is represented with a *vec3*.  

The **origin** property is the origin of wich the transform the node will be scaled, positioned and rotated around. This is represented with a *vec3*

# vec2 and vec3
*vec2* and *vec3* fall into basically the same category, they have an **x** and a **y** property, and both are *float*. Only difference is that *vec3* also have a **z** *float*.  

vec2 example:
```json
{
    "x": 10.0,
    "y": 2.5
}
```

vec3 example:
```json
{
    "x": 10.0,
    "y": 2.5,
    "z": 49.3
}
```

# Writers note
Please note that as of creating this specification, OMF is still in development and has had no practical implementation. So even though it can be implemented, be alert that major changes happen quickly in development.